Hello and welcome to
the final technical module of
the visual perception
for self-driving course.
This module will be dedicated to
another important
perception task for
self-driving cars,
semantic segmentation.
Semantic segmentation
is useful for
a range of self-driving
perception tasks such
as identifying where
the road boundaries are
and tracking motion
relative to lane markings.
By the end of this module,
you will also be able to use
semantic segmentation results to
aid in 2D object detection.
Semantic segmentation
is also very
important for domains other
than self-driving cars.
Medical image segmentation is
a rapidly growing field with
recent methods using the models
you will learn this week
to perform tasks ranging from
tumor segmentation in CAT
scans to cavity segmentation
in tooth x-ray images.
In fact, during
an international medical imaging
segmentation challenge in 2017,
ConvNets demonstrated
abilities within
one percent of
human level performance.
The semantic segmentation models
we will learn about
in this course are
versatile and usually
transfer well
to tasks outside the domain
of self-driving cars.
In this lesson, you
will learn how to
formulate the problem of
semantic segmentation.
You will also learn
how to evaluate
semantic segmentation
models using
common evaluation metrics
such as the class IOU.
Let's begin by defining
the semantic
segmentation problem.
Given an input image,
we want to classify each pixel
into a set of preset categories.
The categories can be static
road elements such as roads,
sidewalk, pole, traffic lights,
and traffic signs or
dynamic obstacles such as
cars, pedestrians, and cyclists.
Also, we always have a background
class that encompasses
any category we do not include
in our preset categories.
As with object detection,
we realize the semantic
segmentation
through a function estimator.
So, how do we adapt
our generic neural network
to work for segmentation?
Given an image, we take
every pixel as an input
and output a vector of
class scores per pixel.
A pixel belongs to the class
with the highest class score.
Therefore, we want
our estimator to give
the highest score to
the correct class for
every pixel in an image.
As an example, a road
pixel should have
a very high road score and much
lower scores for other classes.
When we look at a pixel
belonging to the sidewalk,
the function estimator
should provide
a higher sidewalks score
than all other class scores.
When attempting to perform
semantic segmentation,
we usually face many of
the same problems as
object detection.
As such, semantic segmentation
is a non-trivial problem.
Occlusion and
truncation, for example,
make it hard to accurately
predict object boundaries.
Scale is also a major issue
as we need to handle
both close-by objects with fine
detail and far away objects
captured by only a few pixels.
We also need to be able to
handle illumination
changes in the scene.
However, semantic
segmentation also
has a major problem
specific difficulty.
This difficulty is caused by
an ambiguity of boundaries
in image space,
especially for thin objects
such as poles,
similar looking objects
such as a road and
a sidewalk and far away objects.
Later on, we will see how
to handle this problem when
designing semantic
segmentation algorithms.
What algorithms do
you think we can
use to solve semantic
segmentation?
If you answered ConvNets,
you are correct.
Similar to object detection
ConvNets have proven to be
very efficient options for
solving semantic
segmentation problems.
We will discuss the details of
this solution in
the next lesson, but first,
let's determine how to measure
the performance of
a semantic segmentation network.
Let's begin by reviewing
some basic
classification metrics.
The first metric to define
is the true positives.
The number of correctly
classified pixels
belonging to a certain class X.
The second metric is
the number of pixels
that do not belong
to the class X but are
classified as that class.
This metric is termed
the false positives.
Finally, the false negatives
are computed as
the number of pixels that
belong to the class X but are
not classified as that class.
These terms are
identical to those
used in object detection.
Using these three metrics,
we can compute the
most commonly used
semantic segmentation evaluation
metric, the class IOU.
The class IOU is computed as
the total true positives
divided by the sum of
the true positives,
false positives, and
false negatives.
Let's take a look at
a visual example of
this calculation.
The ground truth
segmentation data is
represented as a single
class per pixel.
Similarly, by taking
the class with
the maximum output score
as our predicted class,
the prediction can be
put in a similar format.
We now begin by computing
the class IOU for the road
class represented by
R. The first metric to
measure is the number
of true positives.
We can determine the
true positives by counting
the correctly
classified road pixels
in our prediction.
In this case, three.
The second metric,
the false positives
is zero in our case
as our algorithm did not
classify any of
the sidewalk pixels as road.
Finally, our algorithm classified
to road pixels as sidewalk,
hence the false-negative
count is two.
Our final IOU for the road
is then three-fifths.
Let's follow this procedure
for the sidewalk class.
We can see that we have four
correctly classified pixels,
hence our true positive
count as four.
Furthermore, our algorithm
mistakenly assigns
two pixels to
the sidewalk class where,
in fact, they belong
to the road class.
Therefore, our false
positive count is two.
Finally, the algorithm did
not miss any sidewalk pixels,
so it's false-negative
count is zero.
We can then compute
the sidewalk class
IOU as four-sixths.
We have performed the
class IOU computation
over a single image.
When performing this computation
on multiple images,
one has to keep in
mind to compute
the true positives,
false positives,
and false negatives over all of
the images and then
compute the IOU.
Computing the IOU per
image and then averaging
will actually give you
an incorrect class IOU score.
Furthermore, it is usually
a better idea to independently
look at each class IOU score
rather than averaging them.
This is because
a global IOU measure is biased
towards object incidences that
cover a large image area.
In street scenes with
their strong scale variation,
this can be problematic.
Other metrics such as
per instance IOU are usually
used to remedy this problem.
The Cityscapes benchmark is one
of the most used benchmarks for
evaluating semantic
segmentation algorithms
for self-driving cars.
The per class IOU is used
as the main ranking metric
for semantic segmentation models
submitted to the
Cityscapes benchmark.
Although, the instance level IOU
is also computed for each model.
In this lesson, you learned that
semantic segmentation consists of
providing a class label for
every pixel in a 2D image.
You also learned how to evaluate
semantic segmentation models
using the per class IOU.
In the next lesson,
we will learn how to
use convolutional neural networks
to solve the semantic segmentation
problem. See you then.